So back in our project and I'm on the packages page because we will stay right here to play around with
the fonts throughout this module
and as I said, I would like to show you that you can find or where you can find the generic families
and the font families in your browser.
We are using Chrome in this course, so that's what it looks like in our case. In case you're using a different
browser, the menu and the style selected might look different but the general idea is the same because
if we simply go to our preferences right here and then go down to this customize fonts
menu right here,
this one and then scroll down a bit, right here,
then we can see some interesting things actually because we can see that we have a standard font which
is the font that will be applied
as a standard by the browser and inside this font, we can select different font families.
That's interesting, right?
These are not generic families,
these are already font families.
OK, so that's what we can see,
that's the standard behavior,
we will see how we can change that, how we can impact that, we'll have a look at that throughout the module.
Alternatively, we can also see that we have a serif font right here.
This is a generic family now, for this generic family,
we can now also select a font family.
Important,
this list right here also includes font families which are not part of the sans-serif generic family,
for example Verdana,
we saw that this is actually a sans-serif font.
However, you can select the font you want to have for your serif font family right here.
We've got the same thing for sans-serif right here and we got the fixed width font generic family which
is basically the Monospace family we saw on the slide.
However, this is what we can see in the browser, so we have these different fonts available right here
but the actual question is now what will actually be displayed, which font will be used by the browser?
Because we can see that we can select generic families right here,
we can also select font families,
we have the standard font,
so what's the font that will be displayed in the end.
Let's have a look at that because we have multiple options to have an impact on that because the starting
point is of course this one, we are basically browsing onto our website and want to display it.
Now the default behavior, the one right here is basically defined by the browser,
that's what we saw,
this is this standard font
and what I mean by default behavior?
Well the default behavior simply means that we didn't specify any kind of font family in our CSS
code because with that, the browser will simply choose the standard font that we applied and use the
font family that is selected in the browser,
that's the default behavior that we have.
Now one alternative we have is this one, we can define a generic family in our CSS code right here.
With that, we could use one of the other options we saw because we had this standard font,
this was option one but then we could also see that we could choose different font families for the different
generic families in the browser settings
and with that, we could tell the browser to please choose a specific generic family, sans-serif for example
and then select the font family that was chosen in the browser settings,
that's the second option we have. The third option will be that we specify a font family, in contrast
to that,
this will not be influenced directly by the browser settings because in the browser settings, we have different
font families available but we could also select a font family in our CSS code which is not available
by default in the browsers of our users. Because of that, we have three different options again, where to retrieve
these font families from. The first option would be this one, the font family we specify in the CSS code is
saved locally on the user's computer.
Now as you can already imagine, this can lead to a lot of problems because the user's computer is a local
computer and therefore, we cannot control which font families are installed, which ones are not,
so the chances are quite high that our website, at least the fonts in our website will look different for
a lot of users.
We'll have a look at that though and see how we can implement some fallbacks to ensure that we can
at least specify a generic family to make sure that the page looks at least kind of what it was intended
to.
So that's the first option, not the best one probably,
then we have the second option, we can use web fontss and this is what we actually do in our project
here because as we saw, we import our fonts that we used on the website from Google fonts with a so-called
web font,
so basically, we retrieve the font from a third party.
We did that already,
nevertheless we'll also have a closer look at it in this module. And then we have a third option, the third
option simply means that we retrieve the fonts that we want to apply, the font family from a server
and this could be for example our own server, so the server where our website is hosted.
Therefore, we again have the control of the font families and make sure that the user can display these
families,
nevertheless if these are available in the browser or if these are saved to the computer
and with that, we can ensure that the website looks as intended for most of our users.
So these are the options we have, how we can specify what should be displayed or which font family, which
font style should be applied to our website.
So the best thing we can do right now probably is to jump back to our code and have a look at all these
things in practice.
So let's do that in the next lecture.